# 3. Nf3

<iframe src="https://lichess.org/analysis/rnbqkb1r/pp1ppppp/5n2/2p5/2PP4/5N2/PP2PPPP/RNBQKB1R_b_KQkq_-_0_1?color=black" 
width="720" height="480" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> This position can also be reached via the English (1. c4 c5 2. Nf3 Nf6 3. d4)

Black should continue **... cxd4 4. Nxd4 e5.** The theoretical move is **Nb5** (but more commonly played is Nb3) the position after black replies with d5 is equal.

**5\. Nb5 d5 6. cxd5 Bf5** (not ... Nxd5 7. Qxd5 Qxd5 8. Nc7+). Here are a few things black should keep note of in this position:

### 1. Resist the urge to kick the b5 knight out

This is because white wants to play N5c3 anyway to defend the d pawn (which will be vulnerable after black castles). If white at any point brings his other knight out to defend the d pawn (N1c3), then it is alright to play a6 since the knight's preferred retreating square has been blocked.

### 2. Bishop sacrifice on d4

<iframe src="https://lichess.org/analysis/rnbqk2r/pp3ppp/5n2/1NbPp3/8/8/PP2PPPP/RNBQKB1R_w_KQkq_-_1_7?color=black" 
width="720" height="480" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

A game may likely continue **7. e3 O-O 8. N5c3 Bf5 9. a3 Nbd7** (with the intention of Nb6 to add further pressure to the d pawn) **10. Nd2.** The idea here is to open the king up, play Re8, force Be2, and pressure the pinned bishop. Black can accomplish this with **... Bd4 11. exd4 exd4 12. Nb5 Re8+ 13. Be2 d3.** The bishop sacrifice is not the best move, in fact black is slightly worse if white rejects the sacrifice: 11. Nb5 Bb6 12. Nc4. If you want to play more solidly as black, then do Rc8 instead of Bd4.

Still, it can act as a nice surprise and it is helpful to look out for this idea in other positions.

### 3. Attack f2

<iframe src="https://lichess.org/analysis/rnbqk2r/pp3ppp/5n2/1NbPp3/8/8/PP2PPPP/RNBQKB1R_w_KQkq_-_1_7?color=black" 
width="720" height="480" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

This is best done after g3 is played, signalling the bishop fianchetto and kingside castle. For example: **7. N5c3 O-O 8. g3 Qb6 9. e3 Bg4 10. Be2 Bxe2 11. Qxe2 e4.** and black is doing fine.

### 4. How to deal with Nf3

<iframe src="https://lichess.org/analysis/rnbqkb1r/pp1p1ppp/5n2/4p3/2PN4/8/PP2PPPP/RNBQKB1R w KQkq - 0 5?color=black" 
width="720" height="480" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Earlier, we mentioned that **5.Nf3** is more common than Nb3. The position is slightly better for black and here is how a typical game would go: **.. Nc6 6.e3 d5 7.Be2 d4 8.exd4 e5 9. Ne5 Nxd4 10. O-O Bc5 11. Nc3 Qe7 12. Bf4 O-O**. Notice that white's knight on e5 is trapped (Ng4 is not possible because of Nxe2+) and black can win if they keep pressuring the knight.